Fixing couchbase tickets drop 1 (#2267)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/fts/pages/fts-monitor.adoc

= Monitor 

== Monitor runtime queries

> Users of the search service might want to monitor the currently running active queries on the Full Text Search (FTS) search page. Monitoring helps get insights into slow queries or for other debugging purposes.

Reviewer: Trailing "search page" is redundant here. 

Users of the search service might want to monitor the currently running active queries on the Full Text Search (FTS) service. looks enough?

Reviewer 2: Proposal: Users of the full text search service might want to monitor the currently running active queries. Monitoring helps get insights into slow queries or for other debugging purposes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Users of the full text search service might want to monitor the currently running active queries.
Monitoring helps get insights into slow queries, or for other debugging purposes.
```

FTS provides new REST endpoints to supervise the runtime queries.

/api/query

The users can use the /api/query endpoint to get the details of all the active queries in any FTS node in a cluster.
For example:

---- 

curl -XGET -H "Content-Type: application/json" -u<UserName:Password> http://localhost:9200/api/query

Sample Output

{ "status": "ok", "totalActiveQueryCount": 3, "filteredActiveQueries": { "queryCount": 3, "queryMap": { "10": { "QueryContext": { "query": { "query": "american" }, "size": 10, "
from
   ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex1" }, "executionTime": "9.700851426s" }, "11": { "QueryContext": { "query": { "query": "russian" }, "size": 10, "
   from
      ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex2" }, "executionTime": "2.216451567s" }, "9": { "QueryContext": { "query": { "query": "german" }, "size": 10, "
      from
         ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex" }, "executionTime": "13.863849125s" } 
         
        }
    } 
}

> ----

Reviewer 3: More user-friendly markup for code blocks — keep input separate from output, add code highlighting

```suggestion
[source,shell]
---- 
curl -XGET -H "Content-Type: application/json" -u<UserName:Password> http://localhost:9200/api/query
----

.Sample Output
[source,json]
----
{ "status": "ok", "totalActiveQueryCount": 3, "filteredActiveQueries": { "queryCount": 3, "queryMap": { "10": { "QueryContext": { "query": { "query": "american" }, "size": 10, "
from
   ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex1" }, "executionTime": "9.700851426s" }, "11": { "QueryContext": { "query": { "query": "russian" }, "size": 10, "
   from
      ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex2" }, "executionTime": "2.216451567s" }, "9": { "QueryContext": { "query": { "query": "german" }, "size": 10, "
      from
         ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex" }, "executionTime": "13.863849125s" } 
         
        }
    } 
}
----
```

The api/query endpoint takes an optional argument longerThan. With this argument, the users can filter the queries running beyond the given span of time.

For example, 

----

curl -XGET -H "Content-Type: application/json" -uAdministrator:asdasd 'http://localhost:9200/api/query?longerThan=10s'

Sample Output
{
    "status": "ok",
    "totalActiveQueryCount": 0,
    "filteredActiveQueries": {
        "indexName": "DemoIndex",
        "queryCount": 0,
        "queryMap": {}
    }
}

> ----

Reviewer 3: Keep input separate from output, add source highlighting

```suggestion
[source,shell]
----
curl -XGET -H "Content-Type: application/json" -uAdministrator:asdasd 'http://localhost:9200/api/query?longerThan=10s'
----

.Sample Output
[source,json]
----
{
    "status": "ok",
    "totalActiveQueryCount": 0,
    "filteredActiveQueries": {
        "indexName": "DemoIndex",
        "queryCount": 0,
        "queryMap": {}
    }
}
----
```

> /api/query/index/{indexName}

Reviewer 3: AsciiDoctor interprets the path parameter as an attribute, which causes errors at build time. Wrap the endpoint in a listing block to escape it.

```suggestion
....
/api/query/index/{indexName}
....
```

> The users can use the /api/query/index/{indexName} endpoint to get the details of all the active queries for any given FTS index in the system. With this endpoint, the users can also use the longerThan argument to filter the queries running beyond the given span of time.

Reviewer 3: Escape attribute

```suggestion
The users can use the `pass:c[/api/query/index/{indexName}]` endpoint to get the details of all the active queries for any given FTS index in the system. With this endpoint, the users can also use the longerThan argument to filter the queries running beyond the given span of time.
```

The longerThan duration string is a signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "20s", "-1.5h" or "2h45m".
Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
 
For example, 

----

curl -XGET -H "Content-Type: application/json" -uAdministrator:asdasd 'http://localhost:9200/api/query/index/<indexName>?longerThan=1ms

> Sample Output

Reviewer 3: Separate input and output, syntax highlighting

```suggestion
For example, 

[source,shell]
----
curl -XGET -H "Content-Type: application/json" -uAdministrator:asdasd 'http://localhost:9200/api/query/index/<indexName>?longerThan=1ms
----

.Sample Output
[source,json]
----
```

{ "status": "ok", "totalActiveQueryCount": 3, "filteredActiveQueries": { "indexName": "DemoIndex", "longerThan": "1s", "queryCount": 3, "queryMap": { "4": { "QueryContext": { "query": { "query": "ipa" }, "size": 10, "
from
   ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex" }, "executionTime": "17.340715297s" }, "5": { "QueryContext": { "query": { "query": "german" }, "size": 10, "
   from
      ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex" }, "executionTime": "9.561917571s" }, "6": { "QueryContext": { "query": { "query": "pale ale" }, "size": 10, "
      from
         ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex" }, "executionTime": "1.239720897s" } 
        } 
    } 
}

> ----

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
----
```

1. In the left pane, click *Dashboard*.
2. On the Dashboard page, click the *Search indexes* drop-down list and select the full text search index you want to view the statistics.

A graphical display of the statistics is as shown below:

[#fts_fts_monitoring_statistics1]
image::fts-monitoring statistics1.png[,820,align=left]

The statistics display the following graphical charts for full text search index:
* Search Mutations Remaining: The no. of mutations not yet indexed.

=== Search page

To view the statistics on the Search page:

1. In the left pane, click *Search*.
2. On the Full Text Indexes page, click the full text search *index name* in the Index Name column.
3. Click the *Search Index Stats* drop-down arrow to display the statistics.
4. (Optional) Click the *interval* drop-down list and select the time interval to view the statistics. By default, you can view the statistics for every minute.

A graphical display of the statistics is shown below:

[#fts_fts_monitoring_statistics2]
image::fts-monitoring statistics1.png[,820,align=left] 

The statistics display the following graphical charts:

* Search Query Latency: The average time to run the search query.

> * Search Docs: The no. of documents scanned for the search query.

Reviewer: The no. of documents processed during the indexing.

Reviewer 2: Change no. to "number of" in all occurrences

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Search Docs: The number of documents scanned for the search query.
```

> * Search Disk Size: The total disk file size occupied by the fts index

Reviewer: The total size of disk space occupied by the fts index

Reviewer 2: Change no. to "number of" in all occurrences

The total size of disk space occupied by the full text search index

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Search Disk Size: The total size of disk space occupied by the fts index.
```

* Search Disk Files: The number of index files on the disk.
* Search Memory Segments: The no. of memory segments in the full text search index across all partitions.

> * Search Disk Segments:  The no. of index segments across all partitions resident in the disk.

Reviewer: on the disk Vs in the disk?  You have used them interchangeably?

Reviewer: The no. of disk segments in the full text search index across all partitions.

Reviewer 2: "on disk" in "Search Disk Files: The number of index files on disk"
Change no. to "number of" in all occurrences

For the search disk segments - change description to
 The number of disk segments in the full text search index across all resident disk partions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Search Disk Segments: The number of disk segments in the full text search index across all resident disk partions.
```

* Search Mutations Remaining: The no. of mutations not yet indexed.

> * Search Partitions: The no. of partitions scanned for the search query.

Reviewer: The no. of actual index partitions.

Reviewer 2: Change no. to "number of" in all occurrences

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Search Partitions: The number of actual index partitions.
```

> * Search Partitions Expected: The no. of partitions expected to be scanned for the search query.

Reviewer: The no. of index partitions expected as per the index definition.

Reviewer 2: Change no. to "number of" in all occurrences

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Search Partitions Expected: The number of partitions expected to be scanned for the search query.
```

= Monitor 

== Monitor runtime queries

Users of the search service might want to monitor the currently running active queries on the Full Text Search (FTS) search page. Monitoring helps get insights into slow queries or for other debugging purposes.
FTS provides new REST endpoints to supervise the runtime queries.

> /api/query

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
....
/api/query
....
```

The users can use the /api/query endpoint to get the details of all the active queries in any FTS node in a cluster.
For example:

[source,shell]
---- 
curl -XGET -H "Content-Type: application/json" -u<UserName:Password> http://localhost:9200/api/query
----

.Sample Output
[source,json]
----
{ "status": "ok", "totalActiveQueryCount": 3, "filteredActiveQueries": { "queryCount": 3, "queryMap": { "10": { "QueryContext": { "query": { "query": "american" }, "size": 10, "
from
   ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex1" }, "executionTime": "9.700851426s" }, "11": { "QueryContext": { "query": { "query": "russian" }, "size": 10, "
   from
      ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex2" }, "executionTime": "2.216451567s" }, "9": { "QueryContext": { "query": { "query": "german" }, "size": 10, "
      from
         ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex" }, "executionTime": "13.863849125s" } 
         
        }
    } 
}
----

> The api/query endpoint takes an optional argument longerThan. With this argument, the users can filter the queries running beyond the given span of time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `api/query` endpoint takes an optional argument `longerThan`.
With this argument, the users can filter the queries running beyond the given span of time.
```

      from
         ": 0, "timeout": 10000, "index": "DemoIndex" }, "executionTime": "1.239720897s" } 
        } 
    } 
}
----

== Monitor Search Index Statistics

Couchbase provides detailed statistics about the full text search indexes. The statistics include various metrics that explain the performance of the search query based on the selected full text search index.

Hold the mouse pointer on each chart to view the statistical details corresponding to the chart. Additionally, click the chart to expand the chart in full view.

Couchbase provides statistics for the full text search indexes on the Dashboard page and the Search page.

* Dashboard page
* Search page

=== Dashboard page

To view the statistics on the Dashboard page:

1. In the left pane, click *Dashboard*.
2. On the Dashboard page, click the *Search indexes* drop-down list and select the full text search index you want to view the statistics.

A graphical display of the statistics is as shown below:

[#fts_fts_monitoring_statistics1]
image::fts-monitoring statistics1.png[,820,align=left]

The statistics display the following graphical charts for full text search index:

> * Search Mutations Remaining: The no. of mutations not yet indexed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Search Mutations Remaining: The number of mutations not yet indexed.
```

=== Search page

To view the statistics on the Search page:

1. In the left pane, click *Search*.
2. On the Full Text Indexes page, click the full text search *index name* in the Index Name column.
3. Click the *Search Index Stats* drop-down arrow to display the statistics.
4. (Optional) Click the *interval* drop-down list and select the time interval to view the statistics. By default, you can view the statistics for every minute.

A graphical display of the statistics is shown below:

[#fts_fts_monitoring_statistics2]
image::fts-monitoring statistics1.png[,820,align=left] 

The statistics display the following graphical charts:

* Search Query Latency: The average time to run the search query.
* Search Docs: The no. of documents scanned for the search query.
* Search Disk Size: The total disk file size occupied by the fts index
* Search Disk Files: The number of index files on the disk.

> * Search Memory Segments: The no. of memory segments in the full text search index across all partitions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Search Memory Segments: The number of memory segments in the full text search index across all partitions.
```

* Search Disk Segments:  The no. of index segments across all partitions resident in the disk.

> * Search Mutations Remaining: The no. of mutations not yet indexed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Search Mutations Remaining: The number of mutations not yet indexed.
```

* Search Partitions: The no. of partitions scanned for the search query.
* Search Partitions Expected: The no. of partitions expected to be scanned for the search query.

> * Search Records to Persist: The no. of index records not yet persisted to the disk.
> * Search Index Rate: The rate (In Bytes per second) of indexing plain text.
> * Search Result Rate: The rate (In Bytes per second) of returning the search result.
> * Search Compaction Rate: The rate (In Bytes per second) of compaction of the index segments.
> * Search Query Rate: The no. of queries run per second.
> * Search Query Error Rate: The no. of queries per second (Including timeouts) that resulted in an error.
> * Search Slow Queries: The no. of queries that run slowly (greater than 5 seconds to run) ) per second.
> * Search Query Timeout Rate: The no. of queries that timeout per second.
> * Term Searchers Start Rate: The no. of term searchers started per second.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Search Records to Persist: The number of index records not yet persisted to the disk.
* Search Index Rate: The rate (In Bytes per second) of indexing plain text.
* Search Result Rate: The rate (In Bytes per second) of returning the search result.
* Search Compaction Rate: The rate (In Bytes per second) of compaction of the index segments.
* Search Query Rate: The number of queries run per second.
* Search Query Error Rate: The number of queries per second (Including timeouts) that resulted in an error.
* Search Slow Queries: The number of queries that run slowly (greater than 5 seconds to run) ) per second.
* Search Query Timeout Rate: The number of queries that timeout per second.
* Term Searchers Start Rate: The number of term searchers started per second.
```
